hello welcome to the package managers
weekly sink
I am a brain I will be your host in the
game of what we did last week what we've
locked on what we're gonna do next week
okay I have put a link to the pad
in the chat if people who have been
accused some updates could put their
updates on that that would be great
would anybody like to be a note-taker
thanks ollie
cool so I'll go first
last week we had a lovely meetup when
Andrew came up to London and we went
through a whole bunch of stuff to do
with the package minders news case and
the kind of things that we're going to
need other working groups to come up
with solutions for so we were basically
having a nice whinge and came up with
lots of lots of problems so there's a
github issue with kind of a write-up of
the notes that the took during that
meeting let's link to from the from the
crib pad I am not blocked on anything
next week I'm going to be in Lisbon to
participate in the GUI and browsers hack
and clown week which is gonna be great
because we can have some input into a
kind of package manager II kind of UI
stuff that needs to be done of which
there is some and I'm gonna help Anna
and shift shift ship I could a
subversion 35 which that's going to be
any questions cool Andrew hello so fun
week as Alex mentioned I came up to
London for a couple of days and scoot
actually worked in the same places as
other ipfs people rather than just
remotely and we had a good kind of brain
mode of some of the the blockers to
shipping different things and where to
potentially focus some energy to be able
to
kind of get some big things moved out
the way Alex is written most of that up
and I also created a blockers file in
the package management repo it's a pro
request right now for essentially
putting out some of the kind of the
problems that are stopping certain kinds
of package managers usually by
categorization of being able to fully
adopt or partially adopt ipfs and as we
approach more experiments in more
different categories we can see how
those things shake out and continue to
add things and then remove them as they
actually get unblocked and are able to
implement things so it maybe becomes
quite a nice area of kind of focus for
how can the other working groups kind of
enable package managers can to continue
to adopt pipe EFS I also did some
further experimentation with apt and
closure mirroring trying to find the the
hard points of incompatibility or
impossibility I've definitely found a
few that are hard blockers and I'm
currently running some more experiments
it takes up to 24 hours now to do some
of these really large repositories to
run the experiments on them so I'm going
to also try and find a slightly smaller
kind of set of things that we can mirror
and actually like experiment from as a
consumer point of view rather than just
as the the mirror slash hoster of those
things or as the initial onboarding
because if it takes 24 or 48 hours to
initially on board a package manager but
then is really quick after that then
that's not such a big deal
but if it does take 24 hours every time
you want to do anything then the that
often would introduce such a lag that it
would be impossible to be able to keep
those things up to date with like the
whatever the mainline upstream package
manages registries are doing and next
week I'm going over to Portugal as well
for the Meetup and there'll be a good
number of people there that are
interested in package managers as well
as just after some of the stuff we
talked about and London the idea of
having like an NPM desktop ipfs NPM on
ipfs on desktop project would be an
interesting thing to discuss with some
of the other web browser and GUI people
because I haven't really looked into how
that whole side of things work so that'd
be a good place to suck some knowledge
out people's brains I also made a docker
image that should make it easy for
anyone else who wants to try and run an
experiment of how long does it take to
mirror this closures registry and I can
make more but that one is small enough
that you can actually run it within a
reasonable amount of time and it doesn't
need it
ridiculous disk space to be able to do
it so I figured that was a good one to
start with it doesn't have to be in
docker but it just means that you've got
some shared kind of setup up that other
people can use and it's fairly for
Keable to be able to go like I'm
swapping out the go ipfs binary inside
of this and be able to share it rather
than just manually scripting away on
some server and it ending up in some
weird state that is hardware ok I think
that's about everything oh and the other
thing that I wrote up just today is
something that's been bouncing around in
my head around how we could potentially
break the
the paradigm that exists in most package
managers where you need an index because
individual packages don't have any
knowledge or context of where they exist
in the world and so the issue is in the
crypt pad but it's the the kind of TL DR
is if a package referenced the IP FS
hash of the previous version of itself
all the way down the chain back to the
obviously the initial release didn't
come from anywhere then that any package
that you had would be able to give you
an index for the previous versions
without needing some external index
which could open up some interesting
doors to be able to to do other things
especially as you get more decentralized
and more people run more indexes that it
might make it possible to break that
humongous index that a centralized
registry would have so I'm going to kind
of shop that around and see if other
people think that's an interesting line
of kind of experimentation to go down as
well
I think that's it I have two questions
one thank you so much for the issues
repo or blockers or whatever it whatever
it's being called at this moment because
I think that's super useful and super
actionable and and I kind of want that
to get more visibility in a headspace
around kind of the other working groups
so that they can kind of respond to
react and help contribute to it or help
start populating ideas in their minds
about how that we actually might take a
stab at doing that so kind of that
request and then that kind of feeds into
my my second point which is it sounds
like there's going to be a lot of people
congregating in Portugal next week from
across the project and so suggestion
either physically while you're there
like make a presentation that like talks
about the research like aim it at people
who maybe haven't been following along
with this so like
go over the categories and glossary and
like understanding of this is what a
package manager is and what it does and
here are the different categories but
also then feed that into you like these
are the things the problems we are
seeing like ask to this community record
it and then let's just distribute it to
everyone in the project so that we can
all use that to feed into our q2
prioritization of this is the stuff that
we need to take on to really deliver
solutions to the problems that package
managers assume so it sounds like
something that's yeah I can imagine
there being a whole host of like
different levels of feedback that can
come from that especially for the people
that I've not spoken to any of this
about or they haven't seen it any of the
questions no cool
I'll be done there's there's one in the
crypt pod that no one is giving voice to
which is one public where is that it's
right above right in the bottom there is
you missed off the wind public smiley
face I get the smiley face extent of my
emotion maybe it'd be interesting to try
and have it all kind of ship along with
the queue to kind of resulting okay
hours that might be a good time to be
like oh here is it okay as they happen
to align nicely with this group of
package management related things but
also I guess the okrs might shake out
more interesting things that can align
well with like feedback into the where
package
should go next no sir I mean like when
to go public will be when we can talk
about like what would what would what we
wanna do what we're gonna do and how
we're going to do you know we can answer
those kind of questions then it becomes
a lot easier to kind of tell a story
about what what package managers on my
PFS actually means oh sorry I think
sooner rather than later like I I would
say it's completely I think you guys
could've found probably a month ago and
like hey we're doing research and it's
great and please come talk to us and
we're gonna be learning about the space
and trying to package up art but I'm
just package up our knowledge and
learning and understanding I keep doing
that to myself and and I think that'd be
great so I guess my point is like I
think you could go next week or the week
after or whatever whenever you're ready
to just like flip flip the repo public
start putting the stuff out there I
think that read me you have is already
doing a really good job of like this is
what we're trying to do and we're doing
a lot of learning about this and we're
gonna do work based on it and that's
gonna be kind of landing as to two hits
so that's my take curious if Steve has a
different one I really Molly and I know
I think I even more important to
consider is exactly like which audiences
we want to reach when we go public right
because like just moving a repo by
itself doesn't necessarily do anything
extra in terms of like gathering
information it just means like we now
can I discuss on some public forum some
public venue one of the things that as a
whole project that we need to get better
or just get the habit on is actually
using the multiple communication
channels right we have a newsletter we
have the blog we have Twitter and so two
theories they wanted like broadcast to
more people but also like like it will
not necessarily attract the the specific
users that we want to attract to the
conversation right now a blog is
typically a very useful resource because
it gives you like a snapshot in time or
like what our thinking is in in like
what our ask so the community our until
we can then use that blog to them
acceded to some other conversation that
we we want to to bring to that Rico
and then well of course like all
delusional thinking about the next
quarter so having these pblica or
making it obvious for the community that
research exists so that when the
community sees the conversation around
okay arts they can also relate to these
discussions that are private will be
extremely important in into yeah summary
it's just like whenever you feel ready
I probably ship it early rather than
later but but I also probably do
strongly consider like reading a blog
posts so that we we have some reference
point to to send to people like building
on top of that would say that's really
accurate like you can also flip your
repo public as soon as you want and then
have a second moment where you point to
the public repo that maybe a lot of
people haven't seen yet because people
aren't constantly watching the repos
would create and then I know they should
be that'd be nice but yeah and then talk
about it on like blogs and Twitter and
stuff like that Michael yeah somewhere
related to that I'm actually running it
right now I'm getting all the data from
2015 to 2018 on the docker ecosystem so
I did a bigquery query to find all the
docker all the repos with docker files
in them there's like four hundred
thousand so now I'm getting like some
sort of that did it did an analysis on
and yeah any findings that we have there
could probably be a pretty cool blog
post that people would be into and then
we could use that to sort of point at
our other package manager work so if we
can get ready like what is like the
right entry point for like hey you know
we're like taking on a commander stuff
like where do we point people when we
want to tell them that that would be
super useful and then we can keep
pointing people with more content
that sounds like a good set of things to
do this week before before I'm going
over to Portugal even if that doesn't
necessarily mean that it's all shipped
whilst we're busy doing other things but
we can always then put it live on the
Monday that we get back
also thinking of reaching different
audiences something that I've been
pondering would be to get Alex on the
podcasts the manna-fest podcast because
that reaches literally that like 500
people that are interested in package
management in the world
it will require it's easy to schedule
the call and do the recording it's the
editing that's a bit of a pain in the
ass but I can always spend money on an
editor rather than just wait for a
volunteer to have the time to do it when
we would need to get it out there that
sounds absolutely terrifying but why not
it's basically just me grilling you why
did you do it like this having listened
to the rest once Andrew is super night
basis I'm sure it'll be great here's the
kitchen
you had Isaac Schlueter on the podcast
no no the only NPM person we've had is
Adam Baldwin oh okay they will sell them
they go typo squatting oh right all
right yeah who's fun yeah that that's a
tough one that's um yeah they're doing a
good job with that now though yeah if
you're interested I can bring it up to
Isaac I think he'll be it my daughter's
first birthday party this weekend hmm at
the moment with every episode is stuck
in editing hell her record and it's hard
to get them out because neither me or
Alex have any free time to do that that
becomes the Barnett completely is kind
of painful
yeah that's why me and Nadia had the
change
[Laughter]
cool I think that's it unless anyone has
any other questions I see some of you in
this isn't a question but it's a pointer
so megahertz has put up two blocks of
time for doing this kind of workshop
that she and Matt designed around kind
of how to encapsulate the set of things
that ipfs wants to enable within package
managers I know that Eric or Fork and
Hector went through it along with I was
there for the first half hour and then
had to jump out like a month or two ago
but it generally was really fun and it
percolated a lot of really good ideas
and and helped kind of structure
thinking so there's a session later
today and then a session tomorrow
morning and then there's a follow-up
session for anyone who last-minute ends
up missing a session or decides that
they're excited about it after the fact
for next week that fit in too much time
on Kwan's calendar which is always hard
to fit into so those are are things that
you know generally it's kind of a little
bit more open-ended but also you know
kind of mind mapping and from a user
impact perspective and not necessarily
from a you know development-oriented
perspective so it should be fun and
interesting and there are holds on
people's calendars quick last one for
that having been like a ridiculously
good use of time last time we had some
very interesting conversations and they
had some mechanism for conversation
guidance which didn't have anything
presupposed but like was very good at
drawing out the questions that we
already had in our minds and getting
along paper and it was just it was a
really productive discovering what we've
and wanted I was really excited about
some of the concrete proposals that were
made in issues mostly by Andrea I guess
this week of like I don't know if you
actually use the word Merkle trees in
your description of it I did but like it
tastehh detail yeah like extremely like
just one layer under the surface so I
think a lot of that description came up
with like one way you could hang a bunch
of Merkel trees around package
management and I think there's a bunch
of different ways we could do that and I
don't know if I have a well-developed
framework for how to compare them if we
had multiple propositions like that yet
but it would be really cool if we came
up with one
and I think megahertz would probably be
really good at helping us do that as
well so we'll be good
cool I think we're all done other things
everyone gets six minutes back all right
I gotta stop recording now so thank you
very much this has been the packet
monitors we could catch up for March the
19th see you all next week